JWT Authentication Bypass via Weak Signing Key

Lab Difficulty: Practitioner
Vulnerability Type: Authentication Bypass / Weak JWT Secret Key

Summary
This lab demonstrates a weakness in JWT-based authentication caused by the use of an easily guessable or brute-forcible signing secret key.
Attackers can recover the secret key through brute force and use it to forge valid JWT tokens with elevated privileges.

Objective
Brute-force the website’s weak secret key used to sign JWTs, then craft a token with the sub claim set to administrator to gain access to the admin panel at /admin. 
Finally, delete the user carlos to complete the lab.

Technical Walkthrough

Brute-Forcing the Secret Key

Logged in with provided credentials: wiener:peter.

Captured the session JWT token after login by intercepting the /my-account request in Burp Suite.

Attempted to access /admin with the captured token and confirmed that only the administrator user can access this page.

Used hashcat to brute-force the JWT secret key with the captured token and a wordlist of common secrets:
hashcat -a 0 -m 16500 <YOUR-JWT> /path/to/jwt.secrets.list

The brute-force revealed the weak secret key was secret1.

Creating a Forged Signing Key

Base64-encoded the recovered secret key using Burp Decoder.

In Burp Suite, opened the JWT Editor extension, created a new symmetric key, and replaced the k property value with the Base64-encoded secret key.

Saved the generated key for signing the forged token.

Modifying and Signing the JWT

Loaded the captured /admin request into Burp Repeater.

Edited the JWT payload to change the sub claim to administrator.

Used the JWT Editor to sign the modified token with the forged key, ensuring the JWT header was not altered.

Sent the request with the newly signed token and successfully gained access to the admin panel.

Completing the Lab

Located the URL endpoint /admin/delete?username=carlos in the admin panel response.

Sent a request to this endpoint to delete user carlos and completed the lab.

Result
By brute-forcing a weak JWT secret key, the token signature could be forged, enabling unauthorized access to privileged resources.

Mitigation
To defend against this vulnerability in real-world applications:

Use strong, complex secret keys for signing JWTs.

Rotate keys periodically and invalidate old tokens.

Employ JWT libraries that enforce minimum key length and complexity.
