Information Disclosure via Debug Page

Lab Difficulty: Apprentice
Vulnerability Type: Information Disclosure / Debug Information

Summary
This lab demonstrates how exposing internal debug pages in production environments can lead to critical information disclosure. A publicly accessible phpinfo() page reveals sensitive server environment variables,
including SECRET_KEY, which could be leveraged for further attacks such as session forging or configuration tampering.

Objective
Locate and access the exposed debug page. Extract the SECRET_KEY environment variable from the page and submit it to complete the lab.

Technical Walkthrough
1. Initial Reconnaissance

Accessed the lab's homepage with Burp Suite running.

Navigated to the Target > Site Map in Burp to get an overview of discovered URLs.

Used Burp's Engagement tools > Find comments to inspect HTML comments on the homepage.

Discovered a comment pointing to a hidden debug endpoint:


<!-- Debug: /cgi-bin/phpinfo.php -->
2. Accessing the Debug Endpoint

Located /cgi-bin/phpinfo.php in Burp’s site map.

Right-clicked and selected Send to Repeater.

Sent a GET request to the endpoint:


GET /cgi-bin/phpinfo.php HTTP/1.1  
Host: <LAB-ID>.web-security-academy.net
The response returned a fully rendered PHP debug info page, revealing environment variables and server configuration details.

3. Extracting the SECRET_KEY

Scrolled through the phpinfo() output in the response.

Identified the value of the SECRET_KEY environment variable embedded in the output.

Copied the value and submitted it to the lab interface.

Result
Successfully extracted the SECRET_KEY environment variable from the exposed debug page and completed the lab.

Mitigation
To prevent this vulnerability in real-world applications:

Never deploy debug or development tools to production environments.

Disable or remove all debugging scripts and endpoints before release.

Use access controls (e.g., IP whitelisting, authentication) for sensitive pages.

Regularly audit source code and deployments for exposed internal paths or comments.

